welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
hi everyone and welcome back to a fresh
episode of sam's
business growth show excited to be
joined by the uk's most hated sales
trainer
benjamin dennehy returning to the show
before we hit 100 episodes benjamin
welcome back man it's nice to chat to
you today how are you doing
hey good yeah it's uh good to be back
good to see you sam you're looking well
feeling it feeling good man how's um
how's it been for you since we've last
worked how's business going well
business is good yes uh covert has been
one of those blessings in disguise
so um uh yeah i've been very very
fortunate
i know a lot of people haven't um but
you know
it's the way it goes but no for me
business has been very good actually no
complaints
decent decent yeah i've been seeing for
your post that things are going well in
terms of the training everything moving
virtual so
yeah we're really pleased to hear it man
and yeah looking for
cool looking forward to um yeah
an exciting topic for many today um
as most of us i'm i'm not ashamed to say
that the main reason i put so much
content out through linkedin
through youtube through blogging through
all of our channels with web choice
that will run be it seo be it paid ads
and such but the main focus
of getting new clients getting inbound
leads people that want to do business
with us
they give us a call send us an email or
perhaps if we're on linkedin on a social
channel they they drop us a message
saying look can you perhaps help with
that this
or i'm thinking about doing this or i've
got an issue with this can you help
so yeah i'm not not ashamed to say i'm
in it for the inbound leads
as of many of us um in business we want
to generate more revenue we want to
generate more customers and that usually
starts with the lead whether it's
outbound or in this case that today's
topic is inbound leads so i want to talk
all about how we can how we can close
them
and how we can not get stuck in
voicemail jail the endless going back
and forth of chasing of nudging people
on emy over the phone
which which really just pisses people
off because you're not really getting
anywhere
and it's just kind of stuck in your
sales pipeline so it'd be great if we
could start from the top then
and i'm sure there's going to be a lot
of questions where i'll have in terms of
um
best ways to manage it as i'm guilty of
many of these things as well but
it'd be awesome if we could have a
step-by-step process of um
turning our hard-earned hard-earned
leads because we all know how hard it is
to actually generate the lead in first
place
into um into revenue or more or equally
as important i'm sure your career is
qualifying them out fast so um perhaps
we could look at it
from a message standpoint or it doesn't
necessarily matter if someone's dropped
us a message
or sent us an email saying look we're
interested in your help in this
what should be our first response ben
should we go straight for a caller what
should we do
well the first thing any salesman needs
to do
when he gets an inbound lead is look in
the mirror and say don't get emotionally
attached you loser
yeah you see the problem is is sales
people are too emotionally involved in
what they do so if you spend a lot of
time and money trying to generate
inbound leads
you get a little bite and the first
thing is you get all excited all this
this must be an opportunity this is good
they're contacting us and there's this
assumption that if someone contacts you
they actually want what you have but
that's total rubbish
we know from our own buying experience
we often contact people
companies or individuals with no
intention of actually buying
we're just exploring we're
intellectually curious
so in order to avoid getting sucked into
satisfying someone's mere intellectual
curiosity
the first thing they need to do is not
get emotional so if you get an
inbounding don't get excited when i get
an email
or a message via linkedin or via
email the first thing i think to myself
is oh
god it's a tire kicker that's
interesting so rather get excited
it's the exact opposite it's ah this
will be a tar kicker everyone wants to
have a
virtual chat which is code four i want
to steal as much information from you as
i can
for free under the guise of having some
interest in potentially working with you
so the first thing a salesman has to do
is get out of their own way
stop getting excited you know a lawyer
doesn't get excited every time the phone
rings or an ambulance goes by
it's an opportunity yeah so stop it
that's the first thing i would say so i
don't know if you have any fear i was
gonna say i've fallen at the first
hurdle there ben because quite often if
i get a linkedin message i'm thinking oh
a fresh lead
or if i get an email if someone's um
inquired through our website one of our
landing pages or one of our forms i see
that pop up
on my phone perhaps or if i'm on the
computer like oh and inquiries come in
lads let's let's get on to this so yeah
i
i'm definitely guilty of of the first
hurdle um
i'm not saying don't respond quickly i'm
saying don't get excited
that is a um that is an emotional thing
and i don't want you to get
i want you to be extremely skeptical
because 85
of inbound leads are rubbish it's people
literally
fishing for something um i
i wrote about this recently so uh in our
previous life many many years ago
uh as a lawyer one of the things i
learned was um
that there is a difference between
committing a crime attempting
to commit a crime and preparing to
commit a crime now it's a crime
to suit your mother-in-law it is a crime
to try and shoot your mother-in-law and
miss that's an attempt but it's
not a crime to buy the gun
and that's preparing to commit the crime
now things have changed with the world
of terrorism is preparing terrorism
offences but the average offense
if you're just preparing to commit it
you're not committing a crime
so buying the gun buying the bullets
perhaps even planning out the route
you're going to take to get to a house
and the police arrest you as you're
coming out your front door
the courts would say well he hasn't
actually done anything wrong yet he's
just prepared
so a lot of prospects are preparing
they're but trying to make a decision on
whether or not they should
actually make a decision so they go
through this fishing exercise and it
often starts with i'm really very
interested in what it is that you do i'd
love to have a chat
yeah that means i have no idea
what and we've all heard it we've all
heard it all right so
step one don't get emotionally attached
don't don't start chucking it in your
pipeline thinking the business is closed
before you've even asked any questions
um all right so we've we've not got
excited we've
we'll say it's a given that we're going
to respond fast because we all know the
stats that add up that if you if you
respond to leads
in in good time your conversion rate's
gonna going to go up so responded it too
quickly
let's say we've we've um we've got them
on to a call
are there any because we've we've heard
from there's there's all kinds of
different sales trainers
um business advice carriers whatever
that give you different kind of openness
ben
um and i've heard many over the years
like give me an example
yeah i'd like yeah what what motivated
you to reach out to us today
that's that's quite a commonly used one
so what why is that bad ben and what do
you suggest we open up a conversation
does it help push things forward so if
somebody contacts me
say i phone them because we've agreed to
speak or they phone me
or we email each other and agree to talk
the first after a bit of chit chat you
know there's always a bit of human
social bonding and interaction but the
first question i will always ask them
okay well look before we begin
what do you want to have happen by the
end of this call
yeah if your suspect doesn't know where
they want to go well i'm going to find
that out in the first
few seconds now the answer to that
question is
always 99 of the time it is exactly the
same
and it is in some formal deviation of
what i'm about to say if you ask someone
what would you like to have happen by
the end of this call they always say
i'm just interested in understanding a
little bit more about what it is that
you do and whether or not you're
relevant to working with us it's all
it's something
that vague or i just want to get a quote
i want you to send me a proposal
compare prices fine yeah yeah i want you
to get a quote
okay fine so if someone said to me they
want a quote i'd say well why do you
want to quote
because we're getting three quotes okay
and what are you gonna do with the three
of them
uh well we're they're gonna consider
them yeah and you're going to go with
the lowest one aren't you
so what are they going to say they're
going to say yes or no yes yeah so i
could go on how this conversation goes
so i'm just going to challenge them
but most people say they say that say
they say i just want to understand a
little bit more about what it is that
you do
i'll go fair enough that makes sense and
assuming you hear what you want to hear
what happens next
oh and now now now they've got to well
uh
but then i guess what would we meet uh
would you do me a proposal
uh i i don't know you start to realize i
don't really know where they want to go
i don't know that's that's fine i
understand
and then i tell them what's going to
happen well why don't
you agree this and then i tell them
what's going to happen by the end of
this call
three things are going to happen either
you're going to form the opinion i'm not
someone you want to move forwards with
and in which case we can say no to each
other
or i'm going to come to the conclusion i
can't help you based on the answers
you're going to give on this phone call
and if that's the case then i'll tell
you no
are you okay with that and everybody
says yes and then finally
if neither of us say no to each other
we'll have to agree a next step
are you okay with that everyone says
well yes of course okay well i'll tell
you what that next step is because i've
only got one in my world
your job is to control the process i'm
not here to learn how to sell to you
you're here to learn how to buy off of
me remember you're the one with the
problem you
called me i don't need my services
i've got a warehouse full of my services
so it's about you
maintaining control and you tell them
what the next step in your world is now
if you don't know that
you're an idiot you need to know what
that is if it's oh well we'll come and
do a pretty
no you need to know what your next step
is now if your next step is do a quote
my question will how can you do a quote
based on a quick
10 minute conversation you can't so the
next step would have to be something
more substantive
a more substantive discovery call
perhaps
i don't know what you sell and obviously
there's no one fit size
next step for all but depending on what
you sell
there is always a clear next step and
that next step has to be a commitment
that by the end of this call will either
say no there is no point doing that next
step
or actually based on this conversation
doing that next step makes sense
so you need to know what it is and you
need to know how to get them to the
point to say
you're right we should probably do the
next step
that's that's that that's that's that's
it in a nutshell
and but the reason why sales people
don't do that is they're scared
that the person was like but i don't
like the next step well
tough and that's
that's the point i was going to get to
ben um i struggled this in
in my younger days um of thinking that
when i say these kind of questions i
what you've just laid out nicely there
what do you want to have happen by the
end of this call
is something awful is going to happen
like buyers are going to say
what do you mean why are you telling me
that i need to tell you this at the
start of the conversation when in
reality
nothing nothing like that ever happens
it's just all this stuff we kind of
think in our brain like we can't control
the conversation
salesman salesmen are bizarre creatures
because
they will take a no but they don't know
it's a no so they'll take a thinking
over and they'll chase someone and chase
someone and
deep down they know it's a no but
they're happy with that
but the moment you say to them hey i'll
tell you what why don't you ask a
question
that could predictably give you a solid
no all of a sudden
the concept of a no becomes deeply
offensive and they get incredulous you
can't do that you can't
no no no what if they say no and well
you could be losing an opportunity
maybe but you'll never know but so you'd
rather spend the next three months
chasing someone
knowing it's a no because you're too
chicken to figure that out three
months earlier
so no it's it's all up here it's the
fear
of hearing no that they've created
and i guess ben by asking by saying
these things up front
we're actually giving our prospective
client
and the person that's reached out to us
more confident
suspect suspect perhaps a bit more
confidence what we're doing because
we're actually saying look
um what do you want to get out of this
and assuming you're happy with what i
say what happens now
um and then by the end of this cool one
of these three things will happen
you'll um you'll be happy to proceed
maybe or i'll tell you that we can't
help you
um or you'll say that you're not
comfortable with working for us for
example
are you happy with that and they're
saying well sales people never actually
say this to me this is this is a bit
unusual for someone to lay down a
conversation and kind of next steps and
probably be taken taken back a bit
because
i know for damn well that when i'm
speaking to salespeople this never ever
happens
no i know most of them are just so
bloody grateful to be talking to a human
being with a pulse
um that uh they'll talk because remember
most sales people
see telephone calls and things like that
as some form of social engagement they
think it's an actual social event
what they don't realize is that for the
other person this isn't tinder
they have no interest in getting to know
you on a personal emotional level
so they don't see it as that they see it
as a purely functional move
whereas the salesman sees this as an
opportunity to
find a new friend and to build a
wonderful loving relationship with
someone
who when they finally realize i can help
them will be a loyal
loving patriotic customer for me many
years to come
no they're just there to try and pump
you for information before they decide
what they want to do
too right too right okay so we've laid
down this up ground work
or some call it that front contract um
we've got got the buy and we've
established what the next steps are
if applicable yeah what are some um what
are some examples of some perhaps good
discovery questions where we can really
get out of um
the prospect that's reached out to us
ben and understand where they want to
get to
what they're trying to do and if we're
actually going to be a good fit to help
them
and vice versa right so there's so much
there but obviously the rest of this
call the rest of this call the purpose
of this call
is to make this person feel comfortable
and believe
that you know more about them and their
problem than they do
that's it and through this process you
will discover
whether or not they do or don't have a
problem
so i normally open with a question like
okay well look
let's pretend we decide we can and
should work together
i'm not saying we will but let's say
that's the conclusion we come to
let's look back a year from today or six
months depending on what it is that you
sell
whatever the right time frame is we're
looking back a year what will have
changed
what would be different or what would
have happened for you to say man i'm
glad i
chose to work with benjamin paint the
picture for me where do we need to go
where do you need to get to okay yeah i
like that
so you're creating like a a future world
where
i'm working together we need to know you
know if somebody's booking a holiday
you know it's all right well let's start
talking about airlines shall we well i
know a lot of good airlines and they
have wonderful plane
the first thing is uh where do you want
to go
yep okay so where do you want to get to
in a year's time and i guess they'll
just start talking them when they've
been about
i'll give you quite a lot of detail well
ideally we'd like to be
flippers floppers or whatever they say
and i go okay
why okay
and all i do now is question them and i
also need to realize
what i'm getting to is what was the
trigger event
because there may or may not be a
trigger of it you see if someone phones
you up and says they're interested in
talking to you about
life insurance one of the questions at
some point that i have to weed in
is well why now
why now why now have you picked up the
phone to ask about life insurance
what's happened in your world for you
suddenly to realize that you need to
insure yourself
let's find out what that event is
because if that is compelling and
powerful enough
we may have a chance if it's of no
reason
i'm just curious
i know probably not a lot's going to
cover so there has to be a trigger event
if someone's reached out to you
what is it that motivated you and then
well why not six months ago
why didn't you do the six well because i
i hadn't been to the doctor and they
told me i was dying okay well that makes
sense so now that you know you're dying
what do you want to do about it
well i want to insure myself well maybe
you've left it a bit late you know you
know real like most companies don't want
to ensure someone that knows they're
dying
oh are you telling me you can't enjoy it
no i'm not saying i can't i'm just
saying it might be very expensive
oh i didn't think of that well well now
you know
so what do you want to do well i want to
keep talking okay well let me ask some
more questions to figure out if you're
someone i could potentially
provide life insurance too
nice dig dig dig dig deep okay
so yeah we're painting the picture we're
asking where they want to be in x amount
of time
um and like you say they'll start
telling the story and then trigger event
so why why have you reached out to me
today
okay and is this getting buyers
emotionally involved because we all
heard that by
people buy emotionally and then justify
it with um what's the old saying
intellect fight with intellect recently
justify intellectually
exactly so is is that trigger event
what's getting our buyers open up
getting them emotionally attached to
what we're saying or is that a bit later
in the in the process well
i want to find out if there is any
emotion here are they
are they simply on an intellectual
fishing exercise which they're well
within the right to do
but if i establish that fairly quickly
through my questions
then um i may decide to qualify you out
or tell you you know what it doesn't
sound to me like you're ready for what
we do just yet
might make sense for you to phone back
in six weeks when you've had your
medical with the doctor
yeah and then what might happen is
they'll start fighting you know but i
don't want to wait that long
well i'm going to be up front with you i
think you're doing this a little too
soon and now if they argue with me that
i'm wrong they're buying into it i mean
that's the easiest thing in the world
how often does that happen then when
you're um when you when you're asking
these these questions and going through
the process how often when you say
look i don't i don't think you're
actually in the right place but i think
if we waited six months you'd give me a
shout back then then we could probably
help you
how often do you find that people
actually say no ben i i really want your
help now or
no i do want to do the time really
you see because i i'm different i'm
tougher than most people because i
realized very quickly that
85 percent of people that contacted me
on linkedin or
or came direct through my website were
wasting my time i
charge a hundred pounds just to talk to
me to decide whether or not we should
have another chat
and 85 and it worked because 85 percent
of i get all these emails beans would
really love your stuff watch you on
youtube
be great to have a chat to see how you
can help me and my team
and i always respond absolutely would
love to have one here's a link why don't
you book yourself a consult call and as
soon as that's booked in
we can have that chat they all go great
and then i never hear from 85 percent of
them
the 15 that go through and pay 95
to them become a paying customer so i i
can do this because i am my own
business so i can be brood like that so
if you're an sdr or an a i don't even
know
one of those and you can't do that as a
company then fine you've got to have a
better qualifying step but for me
i can't be asked having chit chats with
people that just want to chew my ear
over
over you know whatever so by doing that
i eliminate 85
of people so i know that if someone
stomped up 100 quid to talk to me
the odds are they're probably serious
about sales training
yeah no that makes sense not everyone's
in that position but that's a good
example
so i work with a young marketing guy but
a young guy like you he's got his own
digital agency and he started charging
40 pounds for people to have consult
calls with him because he gets loads of
leads to his website he says i can't
talk to all these people and most of
them are rubbish
start charging all of a sudden 80
percent of those
interested just want to chat dry up
what was left ended up becoming clients
so it does work if you have the ability
and the authority to do that if you
don't
then you have to figure out this first
call is about figuring out
is there anything here or is this time
wasting and if one of these calls ever
ends on well can you just send me a
quote
yep then the answer is no because what
they've demonstrated is they just want
your quote they're using you
and if you've got them to that point and
they still just demand a quote hey
you've probably done a bad job or if
you've done a good job you've come to
the conclusion
you're a tire kicker yeah i want to get
into that a bit more in a sec
um and whilst we're ben well benjamin
once we're asking all these questions
whilst we're understanding
and whether the suspect prospect wants
to get to
um once we're trying to work out the
trigger event their motivations
and why they've reached out to us should
we be taking notes do you typically kind
of write down everything that
are you here of course of course yes no
no
you i always have a pen and paper except
when i go to a meeting
um and so i will be writing key points
down now if you know your world and what
you sell you know the things you need to
make a note of
and the things that you don't so yes i
can't tell people what they should take
notes of
but you need key things so as i'm
listening to a prospect
i'm listening to things they're saying
and i'm making notes on things i'm going
to come back to
good okay so
once we've done these stages ben um i'll
give you an example of some of the
questions i ask when when i'm talking to
inbound leads so let's say they've
inquired about
a website for example okay i might have
once i've done the initial parts that
you've talked about not quite in the
same flow i might say look people
typically
reach out for me for a few reasons for a
new site
and it might be that they want the
website to showcase their services
it might be they want it to point
existing prospects to to build trust and
confidence that they're
a professional company to do um some
business with or it might be to actually
convert visitors into
inbound leads into calls into inquiries
um
would you say it's any of these three or
is it something else
so i use common examples of why people
do business with us
at web choices and see if one of them is
and
yeah and they might say yep it's one two
and three yep it's number two or
actually it was something else
i want to build an ecom store i want
help with search engine optimization or
something like that so is that something
that we should
she should do as part of our offering
understand it's a good way to get the uh
ball rolling because remember a lot of
prospects will think they know what they
want but they don't because if they did
they wouldn't have to talk to you so
trying to find out what's what's what
pain points or pain symptoms they have
uh is good i mean if someone said to me
they wanted a new website
i i i'm a very simple guy and i asked
very simple questions because simple
questions
are the easiest to remember and they're
the ones that garner us the most
information
you've got to be like a curious
five-year-old kid when you're talking to
a prospect so if someone seems to be
binge when i'm interested in a new
website i'd say why
oh we need a new one yeah why
now people watching this will think well
that seems stupid and dumb
and if you did that to me i get annoyed
it's a couple of things reality
versus literal this conversation with
literally demonstrating
you know what to do but in the real
world it's done very differently but i
would say if someone's underneath me was
like
can i ask why you feel you need a new
website
well we just feel our existing sites you
know um it's it's not performing okay
when you say not performing can you help
me understand what do you mean by not
performing
well we just don't attract as many leads
as we thought we would
okay well tell me more about that that's
all i do i've got to get them to paint
the entire picture for me and as i do
this
they start to give me information and as
i'm hearing the right things i'm
starting to think
i don't think it's anything to do with
the website the more i'd it's
i think it could be seo i think it could
maybe be the branding
they think it's the website because
someone down at the pub they were
talking to said it's probably your
website
so my job is to get them to tell me
everything that they don't think is
relevant because prospects hold stuff
back because they don't know what to
tell you
so they don't tell you things unless you
ask
and it's your responsibility to ask so i
know
absolutely everything i want to get out
of a prospect if i don't get it
that's my fault not the prospects i
could never say to the prospect well you
never told me
because the prospect will say you never
asked hmm
yeah fair um so is that what we call
understanding their current state so
understanding what's going on right now
and i guess it's a bit like what we were
talking about earlier um
how did we get here how are we here you
say you want a new website but
what does that mean why and we dig
deeper
yeah you know we we need to shift all
this stock what stop we got a warehouse
full of stock
yeah but you don't own this stock right
no no i bought it but not with your own
money you borrowed the money right
no no no no it's my own money so you
mean you've got how much did you invest
in this
100 you mean you've got 100 000 pounds
of stock sitting in a warehouse that you
can't shift
yes okay i can see why you need a
website but so what happens if you don't
sell it what happens to all that money
well i need to sell it by when so i just
keep digging
digging digging digging the website
isn't what he's buying
the website is the symptom he and he
thinks it's illusion what he's buying is
knowing that he's going to be able to
shift this stock
that's what he wants to buy that's what
he's got
so two points off that ben when do we
know if a problem's big enough
that we can solve it and that we should
solve it
after that how can we move that on to
our specific product or service when we
actually want to say
great we've got enough information i can
now start i don't want to say pitching
but it is pitching like what we can do
no no no no so what we need to do is how
do you know if you got enough well
that's a judgment and a discretion
in your industry so i know because i've
managed to get the ceo or a managing
director say
i don't know i don't know i don't know
enough times
so i know it's hard to pinpoint the
exact moment
but it's not hard for me to know when
i've got a prospect opposite me
that clearly acknowledges they're in
pain and they don't know how to fix it
that's where i want to get them
yeah so that'll be down to each
individual
and what they sell um and if you and if
you're in sales now and you don't
already know that then you better start
trying to figure it out pretty quick
because this is this is the guts of our
job so ask your doctor how does he know
if his patient's sick
well i don't know until i meet the
individual patient but i certainly know
the types of questions i need to be
asking to figure out
if someone is or isn't sick so yes you
will know and if you don't know
why are you in sales
yeah fair enough um so we've yeah of
course that goes i guess there's a lot
there's various things so that whether
you're trained properly on the product
service how it typically helps people
there's a whole bunch of things that
could be another conversation so we'll
leave that for now
um and once we've once we've got the
details we need we've decided they have
got a problem that we can
fix um selling
selling to be a funny game because it
could be that we're selling something
that's
we'll say relatively low value maybe in
the hundreds of pounds maybe in the
thousands of pounds and it might be that
we can do the deal there and then on the
phone call
or it may be that we're selling
something more complex
so sometimes when i'm selling kind of
high-level websites or digital marketing
strategies then we have to organize
a secondary call perhaps with other
people that are involved in the process
that need to be involved in the project
and we might
need to organize a presentation call
after that so have you got any ways been
on benjamin on how we can actually
decipher
who's involved in the process um how we
can understand if they've actually got
money
um and those kind of key things to
understand
ironically it all comes down to
questions doesn't it
all that is information and your job is
to extract it
from your prospect knowing that like a
reluctant
dental patient they don't really want to
give it up if they don't
have to so your job as a salesman is to
plant your feet
and not take wishy-washy answers the
fear is
your desire to be liked and to impress
will overwhelm your desire to get to the
truth
that is why so many salespeople drop out
so there are three things i want to know
do you have a problem that i can fix
or problems that i can fix second do you
accept
that they need fixing they've got to
accept it needs fixing because if they
don't accept it needs fixing then we're
all wasting our time
and thirdly do you want
to fix it i need to know those three
things before i move on and if i get
those three things
we know there's a problem that i can fix
we know we both agree it should be fixed
and i know why you want to fix it you've
convinced me
that you will be fixing this problem the
next thing we say is okay well now i
know
i can work with you the next
conversation we have to have is can you
afford me
can you afford the solution so before
you present anything
you want to have a chat with them about
you do realize
i don't know yet because we're gonna
have to do a proper scoping exercise or
whatever it is
but there's the potential from what
you've told me and my years of
experience and fixing these types of
problems
you're looking at investing anywhere
from 50 to
i don't know 100 000 pounds
so mr prospect do you have
that amount of money to invest
now people are scared to ask that
question because it's rude most salesmen
have terrible money concepts and they
don't like talking about money despite
being themselves it's very weird but
it's what your
dad taught you it's rude to discuss
money it's rude to talk about things so
if you ask someone directly
do you have 50 000 pounds
the fear is oh well they'll be offended
i don't care if they're offended i'm
more offended if they don't have it
because i'm wasting my time i know my
solution's gonna cost x amount
if you if you can't tell me you've got
that put aside to invest in fixing this
then i ain't gonna show you how to fix
it why would i do that that's dumb
yeah i mean benjamin would you say
that's the best way to to go at it so
once you've had this detailed
conversation gone through the steps that
we've just laid out
yeah would you say look based on my
experience and working with customers
similar to yourself
i'd recommend this this product and it's
you're going to be looking around i
don't know 15 to 20k let's say
i would have recommended product at this
stage okay
no no no not yet no no i'd say look
let's pretend you see my solution see i
never give them anything
until i know i got all my ducks lined up
yep
so let's pretend you see my solution and
let's pretend when you run it and you
test it and you play with it you hold it
you lick it you do whatever you want
with it you're a hundred percent
satisfied
you believe that's the best thing since
sliced bread if we do
this our problem will go away
what will you do
and they're gonna say they'll say
wishy-washy they'll go
we'd probably buy you see probably they
chuck and they always
they always give themselves a good out
of jail free card
so you have to challenge that when you
say probably
what do you mean salesmen don't like
asking that question because they feel
they're challenging the prospect
you're damn right i'm going to challenge
the prospect i ain't going to show you
how to fix your problem
only for you to get you inside i kind of
like it but i'm probably not going to
buy
so what was the point of all of this up
to this point well no reason
you wanted to do it you're the salesman
i mean i never asked you to do it
oh yeah i suppose it is my fault so if
you see it and you like it and you
believe it will fix your problem what
will you do
because they're not going to find out
what they're thinking because then
they'll say well in that case
we'll either buy or they'll say
something like well we'd still have to
go meet with other suppliers ah
i'm finding out what's going on here or
we'd need you to tender at which point
you'd say well i don't tender so it's
over
yeah i'm not doing that that's a waste
of time yeah or
or something else so you'll start to
gauge how they're going to make their
decision
and if they and i and then i'll
challenge them i'm confused if it does
everything you want
and you could afford it why would you
not buy it
or because we need to meet with abc
company first and what are you hoping
they're going to be able to say or do
well well i don't know well what if
their product
does exactly what ours does and it fixes
it how are you going to decide who to go
with
well i guess i will then it would come
down to price
ah now we're getting to the nub of it so
would it be fair to say that this
decision is going to be based solely on
price regardless of solution
now they start to wishy-wash because you
kind of trapped them
so yeah your job is to challenge a
prospect
they think nothing of using you they
think nothing of taking your knowledge
and information
and feeding it into their internal team
to see if they can do it
of taking it to the incumbent and saying
look i told you we were going to leave
can you match this or taking it to
market and setting up people against
each other because they know all
salesmen are desperate now compete for
their
their love like some sort of grieco
roman gladiator jewel fest
so my job is not to get drawn into this
ludicrous game
it's like i know i can fix your problem
convince me why i should help you that's
how i avoid all of this gameplay and
anyone in sales can do it it just takes
courage
because you'll get a lot of no's with
certainty
salesmen don't like nose of certainty
they like think it over with hope
and yeah i mean it's it sounds like the
root of this ben is is just constantly
asking questions
so you know exactly where this potential
customer this suspect is uh
yeah and how can we harness this
information to our advantage though so
say
say you drilled right down and like you
said there
the the real issue was after you got to
the crux of it they're comparing let's
say two or three vendors
yeah um and then you're saying look how
are you going to decide once you've got
these two or three vendors and it gets
down to price
where do we go there because a lot of us
can sell you now you're a grown-up so
you have to make a conscious choice
and the conscious choice is am i going
to get involved in a beauty parade
in which the lowest is likely to win
that's
that's an active choice no one forces
you to do this salesman feel they have
to
but they don't they choose to be treated
in this manner
so if you're if you want to be treated
like that you'll probably go along with
it
but if i've established that ultimately
the deciding factor is going to be
priced and i know i won't be the
cheapest i'm not going to participate
it's no point
and then you get sales there's a papa
but what if
what if it's different this time i don't
want to live in the world of what if i'm
living in the world of certainty because
the moment i say you know what guys i'm
out
they now have two choices what if they
actually wanted me to win in the first
place
where do they go from here
or if they get rid of me so quickly if
they say well fine screw you we don't
care
i think you just answered my question
anyway you were never going to go with
me
so i i can't lose certainty is your
friend in sales
it just means you have to do more
prospecting the number one thing no one
in sales wants to do so they hold off a
dear life do anything with a pull
too right too right um so it sounds like
a lot of this is being assertive
so knowing when to i mean i'm blind
it's just actually growing up here
and saying i am worth more than what
prospects treat me
i know i have a skill set and a
knowledge base
that can help people fix their problems
i know that so i'm not here to justify
my existence
to someone who phones me up out of the
blue and says i'm really interested
in having a chat with you i'm not here
to do that
you've come to me now i need to qualify
you
qualify if you're suitable to be my next
customer
that's it it's not i'm here to impress
you i'm not a dancing monkey
let's let's wrap things up so let's say
we've we've
um we've done we've done all of our
qualification
we've decided they we we might have
ruled them out but let's say in this
instance they have got budget to work
with us they have got a problem that we
can fix we've got them emotionally
attached with the trigger event
we've asked all the right things yeah
and they are uh they are a qualified
prospect
um and we've set this up front agreement
that we laid out right at the start and
said these are the three potential
outcomes that could happen by the end of
this cool
do we wrap this up by bringing those
back into play ben now what we do is we
wrap it up very simply can i ask you a
question mr prospect based on the
questions i've asked and the answers
i've given you during this phone call
do you believe i can help you
now if the answer to that is no you've
screwed up and it's over and it
the other eye the other answer is yes i
do
and then i go why and then they say
what they're meant to say well because
you've asked
you know all the right questions it's
quite obvious you understand
our world and what we're talking about
okay so what do you want to do now
well you said the next step at the
beginning would we'd have to
blah blah blah okay is that what you'd
like to do well i guess so so it's not a
no no it's not a no
and then i'll go was it a no from you
and if you want to have fun you i'm not
sure yet
could be cute now
you are in total control now
i like it and let's do the next step yo
fine well this is what the next step is
this is what happens you must do x y and
z by a b
and c and i'll do b g and y by c d and e
and then once we've completed that i
will then be able to show you the
solution at the end of it you're going
to say all right i'm in or i'm out
that's it hmm it's about control
sales is about controlling the process
you've got to remember that the person
with the solution
makes the rules not the person with the
money that's a lie that you were told as
a child the man with the money the man
with the gold makes the rules
that is not true money only has value if
someone's willing to give it value
if i don't want to sell you something
you want or need
you suddenly realize how useless your
money is
um yep yep okay and
yes we've wrapped it we've wrapped up
nicely you did mention this earlier
earlier on our chat ben
um but if it gets to that stage and
they've said oh can you send me a quote
can you send me a proposal
is that just a straight up no or is that
a yes you can
get again so it gets a bit nuanced here
i at the beginning would have told them
the next step would be a quote or
proposal but i
i would attach a price tag to it happy
to do a quote but we charge a hundred
pounds per quote
i've got a client an i.t client and he
charges two
he'll give a quote for a hundred pounds
and he'll put whatever figure you want
on it so you can go beat up your
existing supplier or he'll charge you
for a proper one where he'll come out
and do a proper
scoping exercise and give you the real
quote
people love it
yeah you can now beat up your
in the long run it does some favors
because if if everyone starts taking
these ludicrously low quotes to his
competitors and they all start honoring
them they're gonna be around long
oh dear that's funny um okay now one
other thing we've covered all this
let's let's cover one more thing whilst
we're at it um
buyers buyers remorse so we've um let's
say we're selling something that's
quite transactional perhaps we can we
can sell it over the phone or we've had
our call and
the buyers in principle or the
prospecting principals agreed to go
ahead with us
yeah um how do we avoid a couple days
later or a couple weeks later them
saying
i've actually thought about it and uh
i'm not quite ready to pay the invoice
yet
or um what's happened there is is you
haven't done your job properly see it's
not hard
to convince someone by just bombarding
them
to capitulating given which is how most
people sell it's funny most
people say they aren't pushy but
actually they're just
annoying people that do keep pushing and
so what happens is buyer's remorse
is normally because what's happened is
is either they've bought emotionally
and so the emotion could be feeling
pressure could be embarrassed could be
it doesn't matter what the emotion is
but they buy
they just all right okay i'm in i'll do
it then what happens is the rational
brain the intellectual bit goes away and
says hold up
why did we just do that why why did we
agree to buy this and what happens is
once the intellect does its bit
it says there is no good intellectual
reason to justify
satisfying the emotion so they phone you
up and say
i've changed my mind or what happens is
you intellectually bamboozle them
and intellectually they just say all
right yeah all right it makes sense i'm
in
but then they go away and they think
about it and the emotion says
but i don't want it i mean it makes
sense but i don't want him
so what's happened is the salesman in
that scenario has either sold to just
the intellect
and hasn't dealt with the emotion or he
sold to just the emotion
and hasn't handled the intellect a good
salesman sells to both
and that prevents backouts and i always
say
i mean i do this on a cold call so i'll
give you an example of a cold call to
avoid a back out
of a meeting if i get the meeting
and we get the date and the diary i can
ask one last question
i go sure i said you're not gonna hang
up the phone and think oh my goodness
what have i just done i've booked an
appointment with a sales trainer are you
and they all go no no no i go you sure
no no no no i'm i'm confident yeah
i i want to do this all right because
you had one nice chance to back out
so the way to avoid backouts is to give
someone one last chance to back out
but if you have it sold to both emotion
and an intellect
the odds are someone will change their
mind and there's a quote i don't know
who said it's either mark twain or
someone
a man convinced against his will
is of the same opinion still
so it's very easy to convince someone in
the moment to change their mind but deep
down
they haven't changed so that's why
buyer's remorse kicks in
because the salesman actually hasn't
done a good job
he sold to either intellect or emotion
but not both you get both
and both agree back out the
slim i love that i love that last option
i
used to actually do that when i had to
cold call quite a lot more i used to
give people the option to back out at
the end so if i was trying to set an
appointment or set a zoom call or
whatever i was trying to get by the
process of the meeting
i'd say look um you do realize i'm a
sales guy and you've got the option to
back
out at any time um do you want to back
out now or should we carry on with it
and they
they'd usually laugh they just they
finally said no no i don't want to back
out i do want to go ahead i do want to
do this
they're actually reassuring you i
sometimes would say you do realize that
sales traders are like vampires you
can't rescind the invite
get the garlic bread up brilliant this
is this has been classmate i really
appreciate it we've got it
i don't care um i think this is a really
good walkthrough for anyone that gets
inbound leads of any capacity so
appreciate you coming on
um look to wrap things up we've asked
you the the traditional question um
if you could thank just one person to to
come on
um who would you think but let's let's
spin it
um if you could use just one channel
to generate inbound leads which one
would it be sir
for me because i only use one is
i know i use two actually uh two i use
linkedin and youtube
um and i would say there
oh i think i think they're kind of in
some ways equal because obviously i do a
lot on linkedin so a lot of people have
got to know me in my style
but also a lot of people have gone then
on to youtube and they've watched either
the mike winner interview which is very
popular or they've watched me make
prospecting calls um and so it's a
combination of the two i think
they they complement each other um and
then after watching me they go back and
read more stuff and say well maybe he's
not
just a you know mario brother looking
idiot maybe this guy has something
brilliant stuff cool man well ben um
thanks once again
do you tell us how people can learn from
yourself how people can connect with you
and anything you'd like to promote sir
so obviously linkedin
uh so you just find me under my name or
uk's most hated sales trainer again same
with youtube uk's most hated sales
trainer
i gotta i'll do this i don't have to
i've been having my first ever christmas
annual sale on the 1st of december for
24 hours
so i'm gonna like i said i'm discounting
because i can
and i'm discounting because i've done
really well this year and i'd like to
give back to a lot of sales folk out
there who often can't afford
the full fees that i charge so i'm gonna
have a 24-hour sale i've got three boot
camps up on
offer i'm going to put them at um well i
won't give away the percentage but it's
a big percentage off what you would
normally pay
but i'm only going to do it for 24 hours
because i want people
to book on and make a decision great
salesman
make decisions and act so if you're
going to procrastinate and dither
that's that's not for you so december
1st keep an eye on linkedin because
it'll all be live there to book on
yep and i can wholeheartedly vouch for
ben's training he actually um
helped me when i was building one of my
sales processes a couple years back so
he
it was an active part in in me building
up my own sales process so if you're
unsure about
where to go where you're getting a lot
of maybes or think overs then
get in touch with ben and uh stop stop
messing about ben cheers man
you're most welcome sam it's been a
pleasure thanks everyone if you enjoyed
the show
be please do search sam's business
growth show on your podcast
channel of choice where we interview
business leaders each and every week
to help you improve yourselves grow your
business and make best use of digital
marketing
thank you very much for tuning in are
you tired of constantly hunting for new
customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because your
website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach that
brings idle clients
straight to you connect with sam dunning
on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
today for more digital marketing sales
and business growth tips
from the experts